okay welcome everyone hello again it's
the ipfs core implementations weekly
sync it's November the 25th we're
running out of 2019 time and now it's
time to talk about wait we've got note
taker its Alex today because Jake is not
here and yeah so if you're here for your
name on a copepod which I think you've
done already under the attendees list
and we will go through our initiatives
in a moment author of explain the bid at
the bottom where you should put your
weekly update for async review and we
won't go through that but today but
people can look at it and asynchronously
when at their leisure cool let's do it
then initiatives so what what I took the
liberty of doing this week was removing
the updated release process initiative
because we've largely kind of done that
and been and we're now following the new
release process that we PR to both go up
to passenger side BFS and I replaced it
with a section called upcoming slashed
shipped releases and so this is a place
where you can put things that are going
to be shipped soon or have just shipped
and people need to know about it so I've
got a couple of things down here already
so news is that jsrf s HTTP client
version 40 has been released under the
hood it is all fetch and async/await now
so hooray for that we still have cool
streams and nodejs streams in there and
we still retain the callback api so
there are breaking changes in that
release but they are small and should be
really easy to migrate the next step for
for that for the HTTP client is to then
is to now make some changes to remove
some of the streaming API s that we have
in favour of just plain old async
iterables which would be super cool
and remove callback interfaces and
remove well this is a thing right I've
opened a PR and it it actually reduces
the size of the ipfs HTTP client bundle
by over half so it was like 240 K and
now it's less than 196 I think so that
is really cool but honestly it's mostly
because I removed peer ID and period
flow from the bundle and what is
happening is that the p2p crypto is
being pulled in because of including
those those dependencies and Limpy 2p
crypto is huge and I believe not very
much used when you get a peer ID from an
HTTP HTTP client sorry people are
messaging me that's always happens right
so I've got a proposal for removing
those and instead replacing them with
just an object which describes the peer
info and a CID instead of a peer I think
because a peer ID is a CID and it will
continue to be for the foreseeable
future
so that that if that gets merged then
that will be good news good times for
everyone so that's cool
second up is jaesuk FS 0 40 is still in
autopsy
I kind of paused on that a little bit
while I was fixing up the chair so if s
httpclient
because I was just a lot of work and I
wanted to get it all out the way and so
that is a little bit delayed but we are
currently on stage 2 which is community
dev testing and in a few days we will
transition to stage free unless people
have big issues I've actually already
found out a number of issues which I
have sent PRS to fix already so that's
good so that should hopefully ship by at
the end of the month beginning of
December yeah so you can look at that
and that's all that I have to say about
upcoming and shipped things releases in
coin from
patience does anyone else have anything
to share that spin ship tour is coming
up through it or have any questions all
right I'm moving on moving on very
briefly sorry yeah go for it yeah we
announced tit but one owns it just one
more time where we have new
bootstrappers and we are starting the
process of retiring the old
bootstrappers so I through kind of the
initial PR to JSF ipfs there's some
notes and I can tweak that and make it a
little more useful feel free to adopt
that if you'd like um but we'll be doing
the same for IPSS and then making the
world better yes let's take oh thank you
Michael yeah awesome yeah and then and
then after that PR landed I realized
that Jes ipfs doesn't support dns adder
Multi adders and I didn't really know
what they were
oh that's right right spec and so now
we've got some documentation for dns
adders and then Ollie like made it much
better so yeah don't retire them just
yet because we can't resolve those DNS
has another extension to that saga
Steven Rae's the point that while going
PFS does support recursively resolving
DNS adders so for Dennis adder points to
txt record that is also a DNS add a go
up your festival correctly recursively
resolve that lit p2p won't so that's
also unfortunate that's weird but yes
absolutely
okay cool pull requests are here needed
okay cool so moving swiftly on then if
there's nothing else
upgrading the testing and infra process
I don't think any of the people know
that unless Dirk can share an eviction
notice quickly on the up coming
releases so the ipfs unix the first
imported gained support from
data to IPO first notes also known as
UNIX of SV 1.5 coming to an IP FS near
you soon
nice that means that people who are
storing large amounts of data and need
to retain the modified times because
maybe they're sinking some things and
want to know when things have been
updated can can actually know that
information because is currently doesn't
have that that sort of thing baked in
and file modes so that's fun times we
had a spec where we created a spec for
UNIX of s 1.5 this is a stopgap between
unit before Unix FS v2 lands which I'm
sure is coming soon
but yeah yeah that's that is awesome
news so I guess that will probably make
its way into Jess IVFs 41 it's kind of
back
compatible Reich so if you don't if you
don't specify anything you just it
doesn't it doesn't matter yeah a few key
create a node with metadata she won't be
able to read it with older versions and
going we are to really either intuitive
sport metadata but if you omit it and
because it's just added on to the end of
the protobuf you will still be able to
read
we'll older versions of go I profess bit
still be able to read the node if it's
had got me to metadata or no man filling
it it encounters a thing that doesn't
know what to do
okay only new nodes okay but I guess the
good the good part about that is that we
had the spec builds in this option for
there being nodes that are linked to
from the metadata node so even if we
couldn't read the destination node you
could probably still read that that P
being look at the links and get the
whole of the file anyway or most of the
file depending on how its constructed
anyway enough enough of that that's to
do with like you can put some of the
file data in the metadata note if you
want or none of it anyway
let's move on because I'm not helping
things I will try and drop a link to the
UNIX FS 1.5 spec in the notes for the
show cool okay so the upgrading let's
move on because we go like 15 minutes in
idomeni you done a little bit upgrading
testing an infra and process is anyone
around to talk to that but I think
there's been much kind of client facing
change but they did about to work by the
last week nice moving forward cool light
oh is not around for subdomain gateway
stuff but in 0:40 I'd literally just
spent ages trying to write the release
notes for 0:40 I recommend you go and
read them because we've now got you can
use base versa to encoded pair ideas in
IP NS paths and so I've written an
explanation of what that actually means
and why it's important in the race notes
so go and go and check out the recent
notes for 0:40 disputed signaling is
probably still on hold because a Sequoia
is still happening in lipids peeler and
I P&S stuff so Hugo also not here so we
can't talk about that and adding
performance we might be able to talk
about that if Alex wants to share some
news oh yeah sure so I did some hacking
week a little bit on the airport on the
airplane on the way back
having file size versus can have become
dramatically faster so what I did was a
few things so the first thing I did was
when you're importing a file at the
moment it just like imports one file was
the chunky crates today cousin D then
moves on to the next flop so now it
it'll do like ten at once
well do an arbitral number of one and
then for each file it will be all the it
will do a whole bunch of nodes at once
when it creates the dag so it takes the
buffers and it hashes them and turns the
first noise case to go be like all that
kind of stuff
and when we're doing all that
sequentially so now that's all done in
parallel and then I I made it so that
the pinning the flushing the pinning
becomes debounce so at the moment every
time you add a file it pins up file
there it creates you know a pen and
entry in the pen set and then writes
called out and disk which is hella slow
in the browser I found the pinning the
flushing of pinning was taking about
fifty percent of the time because
typically or you know when you have an
empty view put you're writing a file and
if it's one block then you're writing
pen as well which then is a block so yes
another time is spent just flush which
is super tedious but I'm sorry do
bounced it like standard kind of thing
that you do as a developer so now every
time you say flash you know wait a
little bit and then if something else
says please flush they'll flush the
second time round because the thing is
when the second thing says please lunch
it's because it's changed the pins so
the the initial call to to flush pins
now I would say because the princess
been affected so you don't even like you
just redundantly wrong data again and
again and again so now it would just
like she got a whole list of fuzzy we're
doing it will just wait wait wait and
then it will just flush at the end which
is much faster so that is has basically
doubled the performance of adding so the
the add performance at the moment
without these improvements is comparable
to go equivalents that's half the speed
which is quite much the other thing that
I've done is either this idea of
non-atomic far right to the datastore so
you know in in databases you have acid
which is the properties of a database in
the a stands for atomicity which means
that once you do an operation the
results of that operation are available
to other operation
this means that like in practice this
means the the far stored data store we
wait for all bytes of a file to be
flushed to disk before we consider the
operation complete we do that with a in
which record fast right tonic which is
not fast but it does write atomically
just cool except for its ring slow and
say node has its own right FS like right
file functions which are non atomic so
they do not guarantee that the bytes
have been flushed two days after they
finished and so we can't use it
but like what if your application didn't
care like if your for example if your
like using just the CLI and you don't
have a daemon running then it's not
maybe a problem that the pipes haven't
all made it to disk as soon as the add
command finishes because the whole Silla
is going to get torn down after that
anyway and they will be flushed to disk
before the process exits so you could
just use an or atomic far right in that
case and that has delivered an enormous
speed up so passing that as an option
has basically increased the speed of
adding by an order of magnitude which is
super cool so I'm just trying to
rationalize those into a bunch of PS all
the different libraries that we can use
to get that you know super good any
question that's really cool so I guess
the caveat is that if you are writing
non atomically to the repo and if you if
someone tries to get something from from
my PFS get that CIT
ok a CID like if it's quick enough
so if it gets the result back it's quick
enough to try and get the CID it could
ask the repo and say have you got this
and the repo you can say
No and so it will go to the network and
ask start searching the DHT yeah and
even worse it could ask the repo have
you got this and the repo is like sure I
do and it doesn't have the whole farm so
you know caveats caveats apply like it's
very very like very specific use cases
that aren't useful right cool it sounds
really interesting they would be good to
get it suggested to go ipfs as well so
that they can do something similar
attention
cool ok so that's that Aiden is not here
today for any other I didn't performance
stuff
the migration tomorrow - keys in the
Block store is currently I just haven't
had a time to look at that yet so it's
it's um it's on hold for now just
because other things have become more
important but I'll get better soon duck
do you have any bits WAP updates for us
I know just what's there I'm currently
blocked waiting for a test ran work and
for abuse on the code and so hopefully
hopefully this we can get unblocked in
the meantime I might see if this and
async/await work or something I can do
that's quite quite small and I can do in
a couple of days I don't know Alan if
you have any insight into that or if
that's mostly happening in there yeah I
think Libby to me is the one that's
lacking at the moment so you might want
to check in I know Jacobs not not in
today but he will be around tomorrow I
think so you could check in with him
yeah in terms of like Jase IVFs it's
literally just the remaining we're all
the way up to ipfs level now so we're
doing pretty well but yeah that would be
super useful
there we go already next up we have a
sink a weight retractor hmm good we're
already talking about it that like I
said it's merely completing the PTP are
currently bubbling their stuff up I did
a little bit of work last week but a
week before on a module called link for
it length prefixed which is just a fork
of pull length free-fixed so it's just
an async iterables version of of a an
async iterable where you can read you
can encode and decode messages that are
prefixed with a number to say how long
they are and that prefix is usually a
variant so you can it can be of
arbitrary size but one thing that the
Lapita peak guys realized they needed
for sec IO was actually I think it uses
it actually doesn't use variants for its
length free fixed messages he uses like
a fixed length like an I think it's a in
32 I can untie it in 32 or something so
they needed a like a fixed length reader
so or encoder and decoder so I did some
work to that module to add custom length
encoding and decoding so like like Varon
is the default but if you wanted to use
like a fixed length prefix then you can
you just give it like a function that
that encodes a number into a prefix and
and the function to the code as well and
that's so yeah you can have can do that
yeah so somebody came up in reviewing
some changes to the DHT the jst HT is it
seems like it just drops messages if
they're too long and I'm wondering who
would make sense to add an option to the
work you've been doing
the length prefix work or if that should
be another like transform yeah I think
the defo is like is full make or
something it's really big but yeah
ideally it wouldn't just drop message
sis and they'd be split appropriately
between multiple between multiple
messages are you saying that shouldn't
even happen in the first place like at
the DHT level that shouldn't need to be
concerned about us about the message
lengths like it I I didn't know the key
would be nice to just be able to send
the messages at the moment I know that
if you exceed that if you give it a
chunk of buffer that's more than four
Meg then it will throw it will not let
you send that but then but then now I'm
thinking like why would you have a chunk
in memory that is more than four Meg of
data I'll point you to the to the issue
and maybe you can know and get some
insight yeah because might be kinda like
legacy code you know where it used to
have to check that and now it's no
longer necessary possibly look it might
not be I know I know that's the limit
for it length prefix but there might be
some arbitrary limit in in in Plex or
something and somewhere else but yeah we
want to like because the question was
how do we inform the client because they
just send the message that the sort of
explain you the remote mode they've sent
a message that's too big do we not just
want to like a chop the drop the
connection or something because only if
they're sending you bad things and
they're probably a bad actor you
probably don't to be connected to them
anymore
I fought Dirk was talking about actually
sending a mess that you have a message
and just sending it to a remote you're
sending it to someone else
oh we're receiving yeah it's on the
receiving end right yeah yeah I think
that's probably why there is a limit in
place in the first place so you can't
just be sent like arbitrary message
links
that a too big but either way like
there's someone there's some like they
could send that big mess if they can
send that big message then they then it
would be nice to to have that chunked
appropriately if you say I mean anyway
this is a this is a conversation for
sometime else anyway so yeah async wait
reflected that we we've bothered stuff
all the way up the J side because the
HTTP client has now been almost all
converted but from like it still has
full streams and edge streams and
callbacks so we're really close which is
super good news on that front
I cannot update on the p2p and there's
no one else here before doing that but
they do have a Trello board somewhere
which is on linked to from other from
previous and previous meetings which you
could probably check out alright so that
brings us to the end of our initiatives
we have one minute left but luckily
design review proposals we don't have
anything there and the same one wants to
add something last minute blockers and
asks anyone Oh actually I a hat here we
go yeah I put it in parking lot so asks
I haven't asked I heard we've received a
pull request from a new contributor to
update the or switch licenses to MIT
plus or and or Apache at your at your
own leisure Vickers and we had
previously expressed a desire to do that
so that's that super good news I've
tried to tag people in an issue but
github will only mention the first 50
people so so if I I need to send a link
here but basically the the next step is
to have contribute to sign off so
everyone needs to agree that that
everything they've contributed in the
past and in the future will now be
licensed as MIT and Apache so that would
be be cool if you have not received a
notification for that particular problem
then no problem on that particular issue
then please go to the issue now and I've
checked their checkbooks or add a
comment to say that you sign off on it
I'll image the link here I put it in the
notes as well oh is that someone's don't
really thank you
cool any other blockers are asked for
now anyone else
all right questions
oh it's so yeah this is a question on
the DHT cool so yeah after I'll try and
take a look at that at some point and in
which case parking lot is empty as well
on this we have any final things from
anybody else okay no all right thanks
for coming everyone it's been a pleasure
as always
and I will see you again next week for
another exciting edition of ipfs core
implementations weekly sync happy hi
PMSing bye bye bye